well after 24 days of intense aerial
bombardment the number of Palestinians
killed has risen to more than
8,36 and that includes at least 3,000
children that equates to one child being
killed every 10 minutes in the occupied
West Bank 121 people have been killed
and two Palestinian prisoners died in
Israeli custody Israel says that was due
to natural causes meanwhile the Israeli
government says more than 1,400 Israelis
were killed in hamas's attack on the 7th
of October in the last hour gaza's
Health Ministry spokesman said Israel is
deliberately targeting
hospitals the Israeli
occupation have repeated threats to Al
hospital that belongs to the Palestinian
red Cresent and they attacked the vinity
of the hospital and they called the
director of the hospital to evacuate a
and here we need to know to say that the
Israelis have intention bloody intention
more than the situation in the Baptist
Hospital let's go to yumna Ala now she
is reporting from inside Gaza as well
and yumna safwat was just telling us
that a number of people have been
receiving messages from the Israeli Army
warning them to leave the area you've
received one of those messages tell us
what it
said yes um the message or the phone
call that we received was from a private
number he literally said uh he he he
gave my husband full name and told him
that this is the Israeli Army we are
telling you to evacuate South because uh
in the coming hours it's going to be
very dangerous in the area where you are
uh my husband told him that we know that
there are uh inclusions or an Israeli
tank and other tanks in salahadin street
and that's the main street tying Gaza to
the South and he said I can't answer you
on which route you would take but Main
Street could could be relatively safer
you should find out which one yourself
but you need to move now so um my
husband asked
him should we make this journey
now yumna yumna if you are able to tell
us what you're hearing now these are
bombardments just around our
neighborhood um you can hear how loud
they are our building is literally
shaking now we can see a black smoke
everywhere from the window so these air
strikes by the way have been going for a
while now extensively in the area of
Gaza City I don't even know where
exactly they are as I see smoke from uh
more than one
direction y as you said they sounded
incredibly close incredibly loud if you
can answer just one more question as to
what you're going to
do now in the midest of all these
bombardments I don't know how much safe
it could be that we could actually take
our car and leave and drive under these
heavy bombardments I mean it's very
risky it does not seem safe at all uh
we've been hearing the past days and
seeing videos of cars cars that were
directly targeted while they were on the
street going to the South and this has
happened many times so it's really a
very tense situation I don't think if I
risk uh my life and the life of my kids
to take this journey now this could be a
right decision and at the same time they
warn us uh directly they call us
directly and they warn us telling us to
leave and evacuate now but the
bombardments are Relentless how are
people like me or all those people who
got the calls should be able to
leave and how many people are we talking
about yumna you where you are in your
apartment building are the apartments
full of people there are six families
more that have returned to their
apartments in my building so we're seven
families all together some of the
families have their relatives with them
as well so we're we're talking about uh
like roughly
sorry yumna if you need to go please go
and find a safer area for you and your
children and your
husband I'm I'm just inside the room and
uh it just felt so close it sounded
close yes so as I was saying we're
roughly 100 person um in this
building where we
are yumna what are you going to do as
you said you've got your children there
there are six other families in that
building these bombardments are so close
that you can feel the building shaking
the Israeli Army has told you to get out
and to move South but you don't know a
safe route to do so and if the
bombardments around are surrounding your
building how do you even leave the
building let alone know what route to
take it sounds as if you're
trapped that is exactly how the reality
of the situation is and also Laura I
when I tell you that none of the other
families in the building got that I mean
that call was made directly just to my
husband we usually get these calls from
numbers uh that say
is let say Israel um and the number
usually starts with
054 but uh this number that called my
husband was a private number so I wasn't
even able to know what the number is to
uh to to get back to this number or to
have like any more
information he was clear that we need to
evacuate and that this area is going to
be under heavy bombardment but it's
already under very heavy
bombardment yumna I mean it's it's
extraordinary that we are talking to you
as we can hear those explosions going on
around you around your building I just
want to commend you for continuing to
talk to us and staying on the line thank
you for doing so what is causing those
explosions can you see can you hear what
is the nature of
them what kind of explosions these are
yes we we we're usually like when we
hear these kind of explosions they have
been going all uh through all night and
um uh are saying that these are F-16
meiles these are the they are the ones
that this amount smoke and this kind of
uh bombardment now these uh F-16
missiles of as I've just mentioned have
been going on since last night so it was
basically the same sound through the
hours of the night and this morning and
until now so these are aerial
bombardments yes yes of course and we we
we hear the air Jets very loud in the
sky around us the Israeli War war jets
are everywhere in the sky you can hear
the sound of the war jets in the sky and
we've been reporting we've been hearing
reports of Israeli ground operations
expanding towards Gaza City reaching the
outskirts of Gaza City as you said there
are tanks on the Salah Aline road which
joins North to South Gaza blocking that
route of Escape for you from Gaza City
to the southern areas what are you
seeing in terms of this operation and an
intensification perhaps of the
fighting well I think that since their
inclusion has happened especially in
that center part where they're uh um
separating the northern Gaza from the
central and southern Gaza uh just to uh
to make it easier for the Israeli
military as it goes into the Gaza Strip
and infiltrates more into Gaza City that
that area now is going to be h a very
dangerous and risky area we don't know
how far we should expect these tanks to
come closer to the city um but again
we're talking about a very small
territory so basically it's not it's
just a couple of kilometers from Gaza
City to Al where these tanks are and
these tanks in previous Wars like the
2014 war and 2008 War they said people
said that they entered until the T haa
neighborhood so um basically now T Hawa
has been completely bombarded it's
something that it's like it was uh um
you know like uh Paving the road for
this inclusion to happen where there are
no more High residential uh Towers in
that area as they have all been
destroyed and it's so much easier for
the tanks to be seeing and the and the
air uh Jets the war jets to be seeing
exactly what is on the ground around
them yum you said earlier that you are
there in your apartment building with
your children that there are six other
families also in that building with you
can you tell us where the children are
right now and what you are telling
[Music]
them um now we're always together with
as Neighbors we never leave each other
because it's very it's safer when we're
together and um especially hearing such
bombardments the kids get scared a lot
so I'm in a room alone and they're all
outside in living room together with the
neighbors families
and I'm like in the room alone so that I
can get some some quiet space to be able
to speak especially that I know that's
my little one always screams when she
hears such
bombardments yumna I know this is
especially uh hard for you to talk about
the children because these of course are
such innocent victims in this war and
we're hearing of a huge number of child
casualties but just give us sort of just
one more update on how many children
you've got there and the sort of Ages
that we're talking
about I have four children I have elen
she's 12 Muhammad he 11 I have sine
she's eight and hband is Judy she's five
year old years old and uh she's the most
person who's always terrified um I think
the other three they they get really
terrify at at the night hours and when
the bombardments are very excessive like
that but they try to show me that
they're strong enough and that they're
not very much worried especially when
jry starts to scream and
cry okay
yumna amazing amazing job thank you so
much for talking to us through that
bombardment as we heard those explosions
around the building that you are in
yumna El our correspondent inside Gaza
City Sheltering there in her apartment
building other families there all the
children huddled together in the
stairwell set separate from where Yuna
went to a quiet room to talk to us as
that Israeli ground incursion we're
hearing is spreading deeper into the
strip towards the outskirts of Gaza City
the intensification of air strikes from
Israel heard for us there as yumna
brought us that report this was just
moments after Yuma's husband received a
message warning her and her family to
evacuate from from Gaza City and to move
South they asked how they how do they do
that when the main road has tanks on
them and it is not safe and when there
is bombardments going on outside their
apartment buildings and they got told we
don't know you just have to move that is
something that yumna has said she can't
do she and her family are trapped there
in Gaza City amid the ongoing
bombardment that has taken so many lives
of so many palestin Ians